---
layout: post
title:  "How not to lose trust and respect"
date:   2017-09-28
desc: "After experiences with bunch of idiots, I learned some key elements that destroy trust and respect."
keywords: "Psychology, Trust, Co-working, Honesty"
categories: [life, productivity]
tags: [Psychology]
icon: fa-comments-o
---

Since last year, I have been cooperating with people who have shown me something I could have never even imagine:
The golden standard of laziness and idealism. The depth of the depths. So bad attitude that it couldn't be worse.
This is a big value - such a clear antimodel that I can learn from. Let's look at behaviors I can extract from
what I've seen:

# Promising everything, doing nothing

Imagine that you asked somebody to do something week ago and he responded "Sure, give me a minute".
Now you are checking and it still isn’t done. You are calling to him, and he is explaining that there are things
that he needed to wait for. This is the moment when you lose your respect and trust to this person.

**Remember:** If you are not sure how much time something will take then tell it. Do not lie.
If you are not sure how much something will take then answer that you are not sure.
If you thought that something would take less time and now you know that it will take much
longer, then inform person, who asked you for that, about problems and delay.
The last thing you want, is to become a liar in the eyes of other person.
Saying that you are going to do something and later not doing it is a lie and the best way to lose trust and respect.

    Rule of thumb: Do not promise anything you are not sure.

# Doing something wrong

Imagine that you asked somebody to do bunch of things and he have done it, but some things are done incorrectly.
Now you have to spend hours of your time to check everything if it is done as it should. You are furious.

**Remember:** If you are not sure how something should be done, then guessing is the worst option.
Asking is ok, asking for guidelines and basing on them is perfect. Do not ask for things that you can find on the
internet or provided guidelines! And think when you are doing something. Doing something wrong is worse than doing
nothing. I got furious when I asked to correct something and later I checked it out and I found out that my concrete
corrections were not applied correctly.

```
Rule of thumb: If you are not sure how something should be done, find out instead of guessing.
```
```
Rule of thumb: Ask for rules or sources instead of asking for every small thing.
```

# Disrespect plans of others

Imagine that you started working with totally easy going guy. There are tasks you should do together, but he have
time for everything and he repeat you to chillout. You want to do your parts, but you are blocked with everything
because you need to wait for him (I just remind myself all team project on university). Then, 3 days after deadline,
he get upset that we need to do everything in next days. He works 12h a day and he hurry you up with everything.
It doesn't matter to him if you are sleeping or you have other plans. He is expecting from you to respond on any
time and he is doing all the decisions if you do not respond fast enough (normally within 30 minutes). It is exactly
the guy you don't want to cooperate with. Sadly, I know more than one companies that are working in such way.
I do not respect any of them.

**Remember:** Procrastination is the enemy. If you aim to be lazy in the smart way, you should strict with time plans.
If you, just like me, do not like plans then use system like Scrum, where you are doing tasks according to the priorities.
If there is something that you must do because otherwise you block someone else then it should have high priority.
Respect others work and time plans.

    Rule of thumb: Set your priorities in the manner that helps you to avoid blocking others.

# Writing about nothing

"Don't worry, we will put a lot of effort and hard work to finish everything that needs to be done in this subject."
is the last sentence that you want to hear from somebody who let you down. It might mean something out of the mouth of
trustworthy person. Otherwise it means nothing. I asked concrete question and I got response that sound like this.
I asked the same question again, stressing that I demand concrete answer. I got nearly the same answer.
This is the moment when you are thinking that person you are talking with is either complete idiot or he is hiding some
really bad truth like dead body in the shelf. After third time I got such answer, I am became angry.

**Remember:** It is really bad to lie to you coworker. The worst move is to pretend to be a total idiot and repeat your
lie in other words.

    Rule of thumb: Do not hide information from your coworkers. If you cannot say something then just respond them that you cannot tell them that. If you need to be dishonest (remembering this it is always bad in the long term), never do it by playing a fool.

# Summary

Such things found in another person are like bugs in the application. We have little tolerance for them and they can
quickly make us hating or disrespecting another side. I've seen workers who lost good contact with their supervisors
because of such incidents. After that, it takes a lot of time to rebuild trust and respect. This is why we should
always do our best to avoid them. The simplest solution is honesty and respect for other people’s time and effort.